shift communication.

twitter is changing the way communication is organised for humans.
it is like thinking out loud. but immediately, or sometimes hours, even weeks later, someone else can pick up that thought,
and add to it. 
a new dialogue can be formed. whereas previously, a typical dialogue follows a rhythm, a question and answer principle. 
every dialogue modal requires a speaker (sender) and an attentive listener (receiver) who responds (adds to the conversation) almost immmediately. 

written text, letters, emails etc also have this time gap, you might argue. however there is another border that is blurred by phenomena like microblogging. it is not created with writing in mind. it is conceived as close to speaking as possible. and it is not even addressing someone in particular. even texting, which is also a very natural (spoken) language type of writing, and also does not require an attentive listener or immediate response to shape a mini-dialogue, is intrinsically addressing someone.  

microblogging is almost like speaking aloud to oneself. not paying attention to any listener whatsoever. but the crowd is ready there, eager and listening. maybe someone is just awake, ready to start a day, or so tired and in need to go to bed, but suffering from insomnia is still there, actively listening to the individual that is grabbing his/her attention in a crowd. 
--
PART II
--
the active listener quickly deciding whether to reply or not, stick to the listening, or starting up a conversation, creating a dialogue. many hours later or immediate the original loud-thinker replies, or someone completely different adds up to this conversation. 

never before in history, dialogues and conversations where available in such massive quantities. a marketing opportunity, maybe, but foremost, a shifted communication. 

i suspect many shifts to become clear in the near future, because a shift in communication, a next gutenberg effect is fully being rolled out. 

at first, for any newcomer of this shifted communication mode, it seems randomnes, uncoherent, mixed or mashed up. it is clear that this type of communicating is still being shaped every day. datavisualisers, miners and crunchers are setting up models to create a story, their story, plugging in known shemes in order to grasp this shifted communication. 

a new way of telling and recreating story's, the story of human life itself, is just being told, in a different language just today and we are all participants, students and teachers at once. 


